data and procedures/Genesis Keys and Addresses - Reference Copy.md, before:

# Genesis Keys and Addresses - Reference Copy

These keys and addresses were generated by Ed McNierney on 2018-11-16 using YubiHSM serial #7550421. The Public Keys listed are the Ownership Keys used to generate the addresses. They will be used to sign the initial __ClaimAccount__ transactions that assign their validation scripts and keys.

### Endowment Operations
Address used by the Axiom Foundation for ndau transactions to support the Endowment's operations. Will be claimed using keys assigned to the Axiom Foundation.

Address:    ndec3xgijh2khcjywtqdhp35mt77vwpucwg24zpxw6ekvhhx

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebgcc6tseb7iw9bevu28y88e8yfpwtjkrquk9y4nj3u2e7mwz9muqgcnmi4yuyhp

### Blockchain Policy Council Operations
Address used by the Blockchain Policy Council for ndau transactions to support its operations. Will be claimed using keys assigned to the BPC.

Address:    ndbfj2q5udrti57x9gfix56puphk53jqcvu3uib8n8d8qy7a

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbecj8mjhsvsc4i9wpx6iq6rjk396zjuqm6y9aw3bntpevbprvj5npjjcn53b3uncz

### Market Maker Target Price Issuance
Address used by the ndau market maker to sign and receive __ReleaseFromEndowment__ transactions for issuance to purchasers. This account will then be the source of __Transfer__ transactions issuing those ndau to the purchaser. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ntrd and the BPC.

Address:    ndmp57vwxn7hqzg2xffactfx5q4kh9u4mc8med5ta268w7z4

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebwjynnh8tfqdggf6m32nn3gbjcckpsp76anrghx47vfevzfc7mjk3f8ftw5arph

### Market Maker Operations
Address used by the Market Maker for ndau transactions to support its operations: receives a 1% fee from all accrued EAI. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ntrd.

Address:    ndmqqjg2dmr7nv9gqqykxd3g4evsyfssfx5ivj6isthsnrtt

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbecvye9p3t8ci6k8aijaqr7jj748gtx5bzudsnj3mnzrmfnt57sazyhxryvwkwgs3

### Software Development Operations
Address used for software development funding: receives a 4% fee from all accrued EAI. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndam32av92ekrqvjjzwkct4peri5c9wxyg4k9p34a3xtef3x

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbeb9fnizk2fxcvpkathgs4bvvd8gy6swzq4tiy7hr7hwxzisjaqkgqi9zgpzc2iuw

### ndau Network Operations
Address used to collect and distribute transaction fees and a 10% network operations fee from all accrued EAI. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndnhhr5kg3ku9vtaph7pwkz3mxgvizc565ec37prbkzja7ex

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebbad63pzcnut62e2qc5rc9pi7s2eyd6zygb5x5xeha598j5mgg9yeb3mx6zrwhj

### ndau Network
Address used for internal ndau network operations such as __NominateNodeReward__. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndngmp2f34wibp7w8y8rgfhtaeycfaz58g74djpzvs76z5s7

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbeardmxfbz74mcve752ddi7zvz3cmwprsarvnnp5fp3qmv3r22v65isbn39cem4av

Commit message:

Corrected ndau Network Operations account description

data and procedures/Genesis Keys and Addresses - Reference Copy.md, after:

# Genesis Keys and Addresses - Reference Copy

These keys and addresses were generated by Ed McNierney on 2018-11-16 using YubiHSM serial #7550421. The Public Keys listed are the Ownership Keys used to generate the addresses. They will be used to sign the initial __ClaimAccount__ transactions that assign their validation scripts and keys.

### Endowment Operations
Address used by the Axiom Foundation for ndau transactions to support the Endowment's operations. Will be claimed using keys assigned to the Axiom Foundation.

Address:    ndec3xgijh2khcjywtqdhp35mt77vwpucwg24zpxw6ekvhhx

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebgcc6tseb7iw9bevu28y88e8yfpwtjkrquk9y4nj3u2e7mwz9muqgcnmi4yuyhp

### Blockchain Policy Council Operations
Address used by the Blockchain Policy Council for ndau transactions to support its operations. Will be claimed using keys assigned to the BPC.

Address:    ndbfj2q5udrti57x9gfix56puphk53jqcvu3uib8n8d8qy7a

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbecj8mjhsvsc4i9wpx6iq6rjk396zjuqm6y9aw3bntpevbprvj5npjjcn53b3uncz

### Market Maker Target Price Issuance
Address used by the ndau market maker to sign and receive __ReleaseFromEndowment__ transactions for issuance to purchasers. This account will then be the source of __Transfer__ transactions issuing those ndau to the purchaser. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ntrd and the BPC.

Address:    ndmp57vwxn7hqzg2xffactfx5q4kh9u4mc8med5ta268w7z4

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebwjynnh8tfqdggf6m32nn3gbjcckpsp76anrghx47vfevzfc7mjk3f8ftw5arph

### Market Maker Operations
Address used by the Market Maker for ndau transactions to support its operations: receives a 1% fee from all accrued EAI. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ntrd.

Address:    ndmqqjg2dmr7nv9gqqykxd3g4evsyfssfx5ivj6isthsnrtt

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbecvye9p3t8ci6k8aijaqr7jj748gtx5bzudsnj3mnzrmfnt57sazyhxryvwkwgs3

### Software Development Operations
Address used for software development funding: receives a 4% fee from all accrued EAI. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndam32av92ekrqvjjzwkct4peri5c9wxyg4k9p34a3xtef3x

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbeb9fnizk2fxcvpkathgs4bvvd8gy6swzq4tiy7hr7hwxzisjaqkgqi9zgpzc2iuw

### ndau Network Operations
Address used to collect any portion of the 10% network operations fee (from EAI) that will not be distributed as node rewards. These funds would be used to pay for other operations, if any. At genesis there is no plan to direct any funds to this account. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndnhhr5kg3ku9vtaph7pwkz3mxgvizc565ec37prbkzja7ex

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbebbad63pzcnut62e2qc5rc9pi7s2eyd6zygb5x5xeha598j5mgg9yeb3mx6zrwhj

### ndau Network
Address used for internal ndau network operations such as __NominateNodeReward__. Will be claimed using keys assigned to ndev.

Address:    ndngmp2f34wibp7w8y8rgfhtaeycfaz58g74djpzvs76z5s7

Public Key: npuba8jadtbbeardmxfbz74mcve752ddi7zvz3cmwprsarvnnp5fp3qmv3r22v65isbn39cem4av
